So in the last lecture we created archive templates for the custom post type.
But now we have a problem that our custom post types and taxonomies are prefixed with the "_themename"
placeholder.
So during development we had to call our templates with the placeholder in order for them to work.
However after we built our theme the "_themename" placeholder in the custom post types and custom taxonomies will
be replaced with the actual theme name. But the templates here however will not be replaced.
We're not doing anything to replace the file names in the templates.
So let's go to our gulpfile. And now what we need to do is when we bundle our theme before compressing we
need to rename these files, right?
So let's Google a gulp package called "gulp rename".
And let's install it.
So let's copy its name here.
And let's go to,
so this is the plugin make sure you are in the theme. And let's stop this and "npm install
--save-dev gulp-rename".
So while it's installing let's take a look at the documentation.
So it takes a source file and then we pipe it. We pipe here rename function and give it another name, right? Or
another path. And then we save it in some destination.
Or we can have a function and that's what we will use.
So let's instead of reading this list see this in action.
So let's run "npm start" again.
And now in the gulpfile let's import it.
And let's create a new key here in the paths object and this will contain all the files that we want
to rename, right?
So let's call it "rename" and the source will be an array of all the files that we want to rename.
So I'm gonna paste this and add "," here.
So the "archive -_themename_portfolio", "single-_themename_portfolio" and the taxonomies.
Right?
And let's create a new task anywhere here.
And let's call this one "replace_names" maybe "replace_filenames".
And we will return
"gulp.src"
and then "(paths.rename.src)".
So now we have here an array of all the files that we want to rename. And then we will ".pipe(rename())".
And inside the rename
we'll have a function and this function will receive an argument called "path" and we'll see what the "path"
will contain
in a moment.
So let's inside this function "console.log(path)". And inside of this function we'll do the renaming
logic and then we will pipe
the renamed files our root folder.
So "gulp.dest())" and then we need to put the renamed files in the root folder, right?
So let's now try to run this function or this is a task.
Let's Control+C and then "gulp replace_filenames". And now we have the console log that we did.
So let's.
So for every file in this array we will have an object that will contain "dirname" and "basename" and
"extname".
So what we want to modify is the "basename".
So what we can do is we can modify this basename. So "path.basename=" and we want to call it the
same thing but replace "_themename" with the actual theme name, right?
So we can say "path.basename.replace("_themename",info.name)" from package.json.
Right?
And that's it.
So let's try and run this function now.
And let's see. And as you can see we now have single-_themename and we have single-firsttheme
single-firsttheme_portfolio.
And same for  taxonomy and the archive.
So when do we actually need to run this task?
It's when we build our theme or bundle our theme sorry before the after building and before compressing
into a zip file.
So let's add this one. And let's try and bundle and see what will happen. So "npm run bundle".
So let's see inside the themes, firsttheme and packaged. Let's remove this.
And as you can see we have the one that has the correct theme name but we still have the old one. And it
will not cause a problem but it will be useless and we don't need to include it in our bundle.
Right?
So what we can do is when we bundle our theme we have here the paths that we will ignore,
right?
So if you remember we will bundle all files except some files.
So the exclamation mark here means that this file will not be included.
So we can do the same for the old files.
You can add these files here
and then just add the exclamation mark. So this files will be ignored when bundling the theme.
So let's try now again. Let's remove this one.
And let's unzip and now we have only one.
So great.
So finally we need to during development we don't need to have these ones,
the firsttheme ones.
Right?
So after building we need to run another function that will delete these ones.
So let's create a new task. Let's type it here and then we will create it, "delete_replaced_filenames".
So remember the "series" will run
each one of these separately.
So this one won't run until this one finishes.
So after renaming and compressing and everything is fine we will just delete the files that we
renamed.
So let's create this task here.
So "export const".
And you already have a package called "del" that delete files.
So what we can do is we can "return del()". And then we need an array of the files that we want to delete.
So what we can do is we can create an array like this one.
And then just replace the "_themename" with the "firsttheme". So let's do that.
So we'll use this array and then loop through it and replace "_themename" with the actual theme name.
So we can use the map() function. So "paths.rename.src.map()". And the map function will return a new array.
So it will take a function that will receive the current item in the array.
So this will be the "filename".
This will be each one of these.
And then we need to return the new file name.
So "filename.replace("_themename",info.name)".
So let's save.
And just to make this clear. The delete receives an array of the files that we want to delete. And the
map function
will map through the files in the "rename.src" which are these ones. And then it will return a new array.
But each item this array will have "_themename" replaced with "info.name", right?
So let's run this.
Hopefully one final time.
So let's have check this first and it's fine.
And let's check the development folder.
And we only have the "_themename" ones, right?
So I hope this was clear.
If you have any questions let me know.
Let's now do one final thing for this lecture.
As we mentioned we need to add a new option in the Customizer to allow the user to modify this "portfolio"
slug in the URL.
So let's do that in the next lecture.